Black Friday, and indeed the whole of Blackvember, can feel like you’re being bombarded with deals you absolutely cannot miss out on.  The South African Savings Institute (SASI) says you can, and you’ll be financially better off for it. “While the Black Friday weekend can offer some great deals, it can also scuttle your savings plans if you don’t plan properly,” says Gerald Mwandiambira, CEO of the South African Savings Institute (SASI). “The main rule of thumb – only buy what you already need and were planning on buying.” It’s been an incredibly challenging year, and TransUnion’s latest Financial Hardship Study shows that 77% of South African consumers say their finances continue to be impacted by the pandemic. For these consumers, credit products are the bills most say they will not be able to pay. These include personal loans (36%), retail/clothing store accounts (35%) and credit cards (33%). Mwandiambira cautions that retailers are ultimately in it to maximise profits with marketing designed to manipulate consumer psychology. “Remember, Black Friday is just one of the early sales of the festive retail season and bargains don’t always have to be snapped up immediately. There will be other opportunities and impulse buying driven by the bargain frenzy is not the way to go. You could walk away saving money on a few items, but losing more with your maxed-out credit card and store account you don’t need.” Black Friday doesn’t have to end in arrears and tears. There is opportunity in the madness and Black Friday sales can offer significant savings opportunities to stock up essentials in bulk, or major discounts on big-ticket items, if you go in with your eyes open. Here are SASI’s top tips to survive Black Friday. Finally, it’s been a particularly heavy year for many across the nation, and SASI has a more altruistic challenge for you this Black Friday. “Now could be a good time to think about others that are less fortunate, and you can get your shopping fix by taking advantage of the deals for them,” says Gerald. “There is so much need in South Africa. If you’re in a position to do so, why not see where you can help, rather than splashing out on items for yourself.” PERSONAL FINANCE