Thabo Seete spent his youth in rural Magatle in Limpopo selling fruit and vegetables with his street vendor single-mom Elizabeth. That hard work and single-mindedness has now resulted in the driven 29-year old becoming a leading young internal auditor. And, on the eve of Youth Day on June 16, he has issued a clarion call to fellow young South Africans to fulfil their civic duty in the public sector - he currently works for the department of public works - and take up a career in the “exciting” internal audit sector. “As we reflect on the impact the young have played in our democracy it is essential the youth now pay back. The public sector is important and what is required is young, dynamic and energetic people to join,” he says. Seete, the youngest of six children, joined government at age 24 after studying accounting at the Vaal University of Technology. He says internal audit is largely misunderstood. “It is a fascinating profession that exposes one to many elements and business processes like human resources, supply chain management, finance or procurement. We learn so many things every time we work. There are many ills in our country that we can correct from an ethics and governance point of view.” He says there is a misconception that it is only about investigating and reporting wrongdoing. “It’s a systematic and disciplined process that seeks to assist management and employees to have a common goal in achieving strategic objectives. Internal auditors establish a culture that embraces ethics, honesty and integrity. We evaluate internal controls to mitigate or detect fraud or corruption and assess risks.” He says this is done “through monitoring, analysing and assessing risks, controls and compliance with regulations and laws.” Seete is an entrepreneur, social activist and all-round go-getter. He also runs an audit and accounting firm with a business model rooted in equipping young people with the necessary skills and opportunities. “We don’t just employ but train and mentor. I have also established an accounting students organisation to encourage entrepreneurship, teach people about start-ups and create an employment pipeline.” Seete says the 1976 student uprising that gave rise to Youth Month “profoundly changed the political and social landscape in our country”. “This is why the youth need to learn from them that, for change to happen, we must assume responsibility to renew and change the current status of our country including the economy and leadership. As young people we can make a positive impact in our community and country.” Why you should join the Institute of Internal Auditors SA The Institute of Internal Auditors SA (IIA SA) is part of an international network representing internal auditors worldwide. It upholds and supports the fundamentals of the profession - the Code of Ethics and the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. Newly-appointed IIA SA CEO, Julius Mojapelo, says the professional body “provides a range of services dedicated to the education and advancement of internal auditors and promoting and developing the profession”. “Our objectives are to build the profession, its credibility and a thriving business environment. This is why it is crucial that all internal auditors join us during a crucial time in our history.” Mojapelo says the Covid-19 pandemic, state capture, corporate malfeasance and private sector scandals, among others, necessitated a renewal in the sector. “For example, the Fourth Industrial Revolution is changing how we work and operate. Plus, the above-mentioned allows us to self-reflect and constantly challenge ourselves to do better. This is why we must speak and operate with a common voice.” * For more information on joining the IIA SA visit www.iiasa.org.za. Follow them on Twitter: @IIASouthAfrica and Facebook: @The Institute of Internal Auditors South Africa.