The Auditor-General of South Africa (AGSA) seeks a request for information (RFI) from suitably qualified and experienced vendors to supply one or more tools that will assist the Information Systems Audit (ISA) Business Unit (BU) with Computer-Assisted Audit Techniques (CAATS) in support of financial statement audits. This will enable us to support auditors by using CAATS to test 100% of the population instead of only testing a sample. The AGSA wants to increase the reliability and credibility of the audit results through the effective use of data analysis (incl. CAATs) and automation of the auditing process. The AGSA collects data from multiple national and provincial government departments and institutions, as well as various state-owned enterprises, municipalities and municipal entities. Therefore, we require a data interrogation and mining tool that will be able to accommodate all the data sources and formats. The tool must also permit all our auditors to access this data and allow for integration (adaptable querying by the auditor without being a technical expert) with different outputs, such as exceptions reports. The functionality of the tool must include (but not be limited to) the following:   Interested vendors must provide the following information:   All costs incurred in preparing the RFIs are the sole responsibility of the responding party and will not be recoverable in any way from the AGSA. The AGSA reserves the right to reject or accept any or all submissions relating to this RFI. The AGSA also reserves the right to cancel the RFI if necessary. Closing date for submissions Interested bidders must submit their responses via email to celiam@agsa.co.za and mphomok2@agsa.co.za before 15:00 on Tuesday, 23 June 2020. No late bids will be accepted. Alternatively, hardcopy submissions may be delivered to the following address: Corporate Legal and Provisioning Services Brooklyn Gardens, East Wing, first floor 235 Veale Street (corner Veale and Middel Streets) New Muckleneuk, Brooklyn Pretoria For attention: Celia Mabusela Interested bidders opting to submit hard copies to the address mentioned above will be subjected to the AGSA’s COVID-19 safety precautions, which can be found by clicking on the Tenders link on our website (www.agsa.co.za). Clarification/enquiries Interested bidders must submit any requests for clarification regarding the RFI in writing to the email addresses provided in the section above before 17:00 on Wednesday, 17 June 2020. Only written enquiries will be attended to.