By Steve Gorman Los Angeles - FBI agents in tactical gear on Wednesday raided the Los Angeles-area mansion home of YouTube star and social media influencer Jake Paul in an investigation stemming from a looting spree at an upscale shopping mall in Scottsdale, Arizona, officials said. The Federal Bureau of Investigation also searched two locations in Las Vegas, but no one was taken into custody during the raids and no arrest warrant has been issued for Paul, the agency said. Paul, 23, was not present when his home was searched, according to Laura Eimiller, an FBI spokeswoman in Los Angeles. Paul's lawyer, Richard Schonfeld, in a statement acknowledged that his client's home was searched and promised cooperation with the investigation. A SWAT team seized numerous firearms from YouTube star Jake Paul’s Calabasas home today - including semiautomatic rifles and shotguns - after the FBI issued a search warrant as part of an investigation.  pic.twitter.com/Mg2qJcEqEK Paul, whose viral YouTube video postings of provocative pranks have won him millions of followers, had no comment on his Twitter and Instagram accounts. An FBI spokeswoman in Phoenix, Brooke Brennan, said agents were "investigating allegations of criminal acts surrounding the incident at Scottsdale Fashion Square in May." She declined further comment because the search warrant was under court seal. Local news video footage from the raid showed officers removing several rifles from Paul's mansion in Calabasas, about 30 miles north-west of Los Angeles. Whatever the feds were looking for at Jake Paul's home apparently required a lot of backup and manpower ... because a small militia left his pad in armored trucks https://t.co/obI9ZmWE9V Scottsdale police said separately that misdemeanour charges filed in June accusing Paul of criminal trespass and unlawful assembly in connection with the Fashion Square "riots" were dismissed on Wednesday in conjunction with the federal probe. Misdemeanour charges from that incident were likewise dropped against two men police described as Paul's associates, one of them a Las Vegas nightclub promoter. Police said dismissal of those charges was tied to completing the federal investigation, adding that prosecutors could refile the case if warranted. Civil disturbances in Scottsdale on May 30 grew out of demonstrations triggered by the George Floyd killing that week. Police said Paul took part in the unrest and was present after the protest was declared an unlawful assembly. He also was accused of illegally entering the shopping mall and remaining inside after it was closed. Paul denied that he or anyone with him took part in looting or vandalism, and said he was "documenting, not engaging" in, lawlessness. Reuters