Durban - A top ANC leader in the Mpumalanga province has been arrested for the rape of his eight-year-old twin daughters. The suspect is an ANC Mpumalanga provincial executive member. He was arrested on Monday morning and is currently in police custody pending an appearance in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court. His name and the name of the suburb where the rape allegedly took place is known to Independent Media, but due to ethical considerations, he cannot be named as that would identify the victims. The ANC issued a statement about the matter and released his full name and current and previous positions in the party. He was previously accused of raping a 26-year-old woman in 2012, but charges against him were withdrawn by the NPA in the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court. The court at the time had been told that the director of public prosecutions had decided against prosecuting the suspect after examining the case docket. In the statement, the ANC in Mpumalanga said the man who once served in the National Assembly before coming back to the province to serve as an MEC, has since been suspended in line with the ANC’s stance on members facing serious allegations and charges. “(He) was arrested on Monday the 28th of September 2020 at his home for allegedly raping his two daughters and will appear in the Nelspruit Magistrate Court on a date to be determined by the authorities… "(He) has been summarily suspended as a member of the ANC and PEC until the case is concluded by the competent courts of the land consistent with the resolutions of the most recent National Executive Committee meeting of the ANC and the 54th National Conference, which resolved that all members charged for corruption and other serious crimes should step aside from all activities associated with the ANC,” the party said in a statement on Monday. Furthermore, the ANC said it stood with the victims and had assured them it will do all in its might for justice to be served. “We also wish to let them know that the ANC-led government has established different institutions to support victims of rape and all types of gender-based violence and they should feel free to approach those institutions.” ** This story has been updated. Political Bureau