Warren Buffet, a successful investor, advises that you should never invest in a business, you can’t understand. So, you should first understand the industry and answer some crucial questions before getting into an investment, ask yourself if you are ready to lose money and if you have a reserve fund? Are you clear about your investing goals?  And do you understand what investing actually means? These questions will bring clarity to your decisions, and you’ll better understand your investment journey. Below are tips to choose the best Bitcoin Android application for beginners. If you have decided to invest in bitcoin, then you can start with your smartphone. You can download a Bitcoin application from the playstore and start investing. But read this post before you download an application for investing in bitcoin. You need to consider the types of Bitcoin applications and the legitimacy of the application. Once you know about the different types of applications available, you can decide which application to start with. Then check the legitimacy of the application you have chosen. There are broadly five types of Bitcoin applications, such as news applications, price tracking applications, wallet applications, trading applications, and mining applications. Because your interest in Bitcoin specifically, you won’t need a mining application, but you may need the first four applications. Take a quick look at each type of application. News application: News plays a vital role in investing, so you may need a news application to stay updated on all events, news, and bitcoin-related announcements. Price Tracking application: These are useful applications for traders and investors as it gives you the price alerts and price history of bitcoin and other digital coins. Wallet application: A wallet application is necessary for managing your bitcoin. It allows you to make transactions and bitcoin purchases from different exchanges. You store your bitcoin securely using a private key and it allows you to sell your holdings too. Trading application: This is the application you need to invest in bitcoin through a crypto exchange. These applications come with sophisticated features and tools. Some crypto applications are free, and some charge a minimal fee. Now you have a clear idea of different types of bitcoin android applications. If you’re going to invest in cannabis stocks or international markets, visit the Bitcoin circuit. Once you decide which type of application you want to start with, next you need to check the legitimacy of the application before you download it. Hackers target bitcoin Android applications because of two main reasons namely, the increasing value of bitcoin and the mere fact that Android applications are not secure. It is essential to check the application's legitimacy through research and background checks. Lastly, remember to never invest more than you can afford to lose.  