Cape Town - The portfolio committee on women, youth and people with disabilities said on Thursday night it would wait for the referral from the National Assembly regarding the selection of the board for the National Youth Development Agency (NYDA). This after the National Assembly earlier resolved to send back the report recommending the candidates to serve on the board to the portfolio committee. This was after ANC chief whip Pemmy Majodina moved that the report be referred for further consideration by the portfolio committee. Committee chairperson Nonhlanhla Ncube-Dube said they would wait for the full details on what they needed to do. "We will take it from there when we get the terms of reference," Ncube-Dube said. "They were talking about the issue of inclusivity. I don't want to talk about that before I get a written document," she said. The referral of the report on the selection of candidates came as no surprise. Last Thursday, National Assembly Speaker Thandi Modise told the programme committee that she was still looking into the process followed by the committee in the interviewing of the candidates. Modise had said they received a challenge to the processes of the portfolio committee when it interviewed 29 candidates early last month. "I still have to get advice on it because I want to be satisfied that, in fact, what the committee did from the start to the finish was correct and cannot be attacked as it is being challenged," she said. Parliament advertised the post in December and allowed the public to nominate candidates until January 2. A total of 680 applications were received and 30 were shortlisted with one being disqualified after not making it for the interviews. The two committees dealing with youth matters in the National Assembly and National Council of Provinces held joint interviews and scored the top candidates. They compiled their reports separately for consideration by the two Houses to make recommendations to Ramaphosa. Although there were plenary sittings, the committee's report was not considered after threats of taking parliament to court were made over the NYDA board selection process by a youth formation and the DA Youth also crying foul. The selection process was mired in controversy amid surfacing of a letter purported to be from the interim ANC Youth League task team forwarding a list of preferred candidates, including some of those recommended, to the office of ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte prior to the interviews. Among those nominated were the daughter of former president Jacob Zuma, Thuthukile Zuma, political analyst Lukhona Mnguni, former NYDA board chairperson Sifiso Mtsweni and Avela Mjajubana, a community outreach officer in the office of Public Service and Administration Minister Senzo Mchunu and former Sasco president. Others were former Tshwane University SRC president Karabo Mohale, former Young Communist League spokesperson Molaoli Sekake, Paballo Ponoane, who is the volunteer assistant to the ANC Women's League Gauteng secretary. Political Bureau