China and Kiribati have conducted various exchanges in various areas and at different levels with profitable results, since the resumption of diplomatic ties. Chinese President Xi Jinping said that by continuing diplomatic ties with China, Kiribati's President Taneti Mamau and his country are on the right side of history. Xi made the declaration at the Great People's Hall in Beijing during talks with Mamau. Based on the one-China policy, China and Kiribati continued their diplomatic relations in September 2019, opening a new chapter on bilateral ties. Facts have shown that restoring diplomatic ties is beneficial to both nations, and bilateral ties have strong prospects, Xi said. WATCH: To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Calling Mamau's visit to China "an important milestone in relations between China and Kiribati," China is ready to work with the Pacific island countries to develop bilateral ties to a new level. Xi called on both countries to broaden their mutual political understanding, saying that China has always maintained that all countries, whether large or small, should be equal and that all countries should respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of each other. Both countries should expand their pragmatic cooperation by seeking synergy with Kiribati's development plans from the Belt and Road Initiative. Appreciating China's support, Mamau said he looks forward to enhancing cooperation with China in areas including agriculture, trade, finance, tourism, fisheries, education, health care, and construction of infrastructure. China is willing to intensify cooperation within multilateral structures, including the United Nations and the Pacific Islands Forum, and will continue to provide assistance and support to Kiribati on climate change under South-South cooperation to safeguard developing countries' common interests, Xi said. Kiribati speaks highly of the role of China in safeguarding world peace and fostering sustainable growth and appreciates the efforts of China to strengthen South-South cooperation. The support of small and medium-sized developing countries such as Kiribati to accelerate development and address challenges such as climate change. Kiribati is willing to work with China to strengthen bilateral ties. Following the talks, Xi and Mamau witnessed the signing in Beijing of documents on bilateral cooperation. Beginning January 4 to 11, Mamau will pay a state visit to China. 