JOHANNESBURG - The local unit whipsawed yesterday but managed to recover modestly when the European session ended, after hitting a six-week low during the preceding session, worsened by lower global trade volumes due to the Lunar New Year holiday season according to NKC Research. Fragile sentiment due to pandemic fears related to the coronavirus – which has already claimed more than 100 lives – weighed on the risk-sensitive rand, adding to cautious anticipation of Wednesday’s release of the US FOMC announcement. At the close of local trade, the rand quoted 0.38 percent weaker at R14.63/$, after trading in range of R14.54/$ - R14.71/$. The rand was flat this morning. Expected range today R14.40/$ - R14.65/$. South African bourse The JSE All Share (-0.28 percent) ended in the red yesterday. dragged lower mostly by large gold mining (-3.61 percent) shares. The share price of Blue Label Telecoms (-13.52 percent) plunged steeply after it reported that Cell C, of which it holds a majority stake, has defaulted on multiple debt repayments. Cell C is SA’s third largest mobile operator but has been battling to improve its liquidity and debt profile. In the overall emerging market sphere, the MSCI Emerging Market Index (-0.11 percent) traded lower. Brent crude oil The Brent oil price trended in a narrow band as it steadied from a five-day losing streak, albeit unable to breach the $60pb level, as traders try to gauge the potential impact of the virus on Chinese fuel demand. At the close of local trade, benchmark Brent crude futures quoted 0.47 percent weaker at $58.91pb. Crude prices bounced back during Asian trade this morning.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Like the Business Report on Facebook by clicking here or follow us on Twitter @Busrep. You can also follow the Business Report on Instagram here BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE