London - Prince Andrew and the FBI were locked in a furious war of words on Wednesday over whether he has ignored requests for help in the inquiry into paedophile Jeffrey Epstein. The Duke of York’s friends earlier claimed he would be happy to speak to US investigators but "hasn’t been approached yet". However, the Americans on Wednesday insisted that was untrue, claiming they had tried ‘several’ times to arrange an interview with Andrew about his friendship with Epstein. The financier, 66, killed himself last year as he awaited trial on child sex abuse charges. On Monday, New York attorney Geoffrey Berman accused the prince of "zero co-operation" in the Epstein investigation. He gave a press conference outside Epstein’s New York mansion where Andrew had stayed and said the Queen’s son had failed to keep his promise to help police probing "co-conspirators". He claimed the FBI and US prosecutors had written to Andrew’s lawyers seeking an interview but were snubbed. On Tuesday an anonymous source close to the duke said "nothing could be further from the truth" and stressed that Andrew, 59, was "more than happy to talk to the FBI but he hasn’t been approached by them yet". This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Prince Andrew denies any suspicion of Jeffrey Epstein's behaviour The Duke of York has denied he ever suspected "any behaviour of the sort" from convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein.

Breaking his silence following a string of media reports about his alleged links to the financier, who killed himself in prison t... On Wednesday, Mr Berman’s office dismissed this claim, stressing the FBI had "made several attempts to contac" Andrew’s representatives. Lawyers for some of the alleged victims of Epstein on Wednesday called on the duke to arrange an interview with the FBI immediately. Gloria Allred, who represents five women, said: "What else does Prince Andrew need? Does he need a gold-plated invitation delivered on a silver platter? "Rather than appearing to twist himself into a pretzel trying to come up with excuses to explain why the meeting with the FBI has not taken place, he should arrange a meeting ASAP, without conditions, without excuses and without delay. "It is time for him to put justice for Jeffrey Epstein’s victims first and his apparent discomfort with being interviewed by the FBI last. Justice delayed is justice denied." Lisa Bloom, who represents another five women, said: "I would assume requests have been made in writing. Let’s see the receipts." Andrew has always strenuously denied knowing Epstein was sexually abusing girls.