CAPE TOWN - What are the factors that push a woman to steal another’s baby? For some, it’s the overwhelming desire to have a baby of their own that makes them go to any lengths. The case of Zephany Nurse made headlines around the world after it was revealed that in 1997 she was stolen as a newborn from a hospital in Cape Town by a woman dressed as a nurse. After 17 years of being raised by Levona and Michael Solomon, Nurse was reunited with her biological parents, Morne and Celeste, after DNA tests confirmed her identity. A distinctly similar crime occurred in 1998 when Gloria Williams walked into a hospital in Florida dressed as a nurse and walked out with a newborn girl. Williams raised the girl for 18 years as her own daughter in South Carolina. In 2018, Williams confessed to the abduction of the baby girl after an anonymous tip was sent to the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children (NCMEC). Director and co-founder of the Pink Ladies Missing Children Organisation, Jacqui Thomas, said many of the human trafficking crimes in South African are underreported on. “ As the taboo on such crimes lifts, reporting will become more common,” she said. Women who traffic or steal babies could have psychological illnesses. “They are desperate to have a child and appease their partner's demands for the same. It appears to be a comparatively easy crime to commit as well, given the naive and trusting nature of South African citizens in some communities,” said Thomas. National Coordinator for Missing Children South Africa, Bianca van Aswegen, said there are a number of possible motives behind children being kidnapped or stolen. In the United States, the NCMEC confirmed 327 cases of infant abduction over the past 50 years and nearly all have been female abductors. In analyzing those abductions, the center developed a list of characteristics usually exhibited from an infant abductor. These include: According to Missing Children South Africa, here are some steps to take when you suspect a child has gone missing.