London - Prince Harry’s team has held talks with Goldman Sachs – but he insists it was to benefit his charities rather than bolster his and Meghan’s brand. The Duke of Sussex’s associates are said to have started discussions with the bank – one of the world’s richest – in November, when the couple were preparing to become "financially independent". It raises the prospect of Harry following in the footsteps of David Beckham and Gwyneth Paltrow by speaking at one of the US global giant’s ‘Talks at GS’ events. Stars are not paid a fee for an appearance, but PR experts speculated it could pave the way for a lucrative future relationship with the bank. Previous GS speakers also include Bob Iger, the Disney chief to whom Harry was caught on camera pitching for voiceover work for Meghan. Last week the duke and duchess made their first private appearance since quitting as senior royals, at a conference for bank JP Morgan in Florida. They refused to confirm if they were paid to attend the event, where they mixed with some of America’s richest men and women. It is understood that any tie-up with Goldman would be for the benefit of one of Harry’s charities, probably involving his work with military veterans and mental health. The discussions began when the couple were holed up in a Vancouver mansion with baby son Archie deciding how they would quit as senior royals. Experts say they could earn a fortune – for example, through speeches or ambassador work – even if they are not directly paid to work with Goldman. But a deal could be controversial as the bank has been criticised for paying huge bonuses. Last night Buckingham Palace and Goldman Sachs declined to comment. A royal source categorically denied Harry was in discussions ‘around a role at Goldman Sachs’, but added: "It was one of the duke’s charitable patronages that was in discussion with Goldman Sachs". This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Obamas likely to be model as Meghan and Harry seek fresh brand Expert says the couple's brand power is endless.