JOHANNESBURG - The rand took advantage of global risk appetite to shrug off a weak economic environment as investors were drawn by carry allure. A pick-up in China’s credit cycle and sustained easing by advanced economies created an environment favourable to risk appetite, although stretched valuations and risk of a second wave of infections may produce a fresh correction. At this stage, however, we consider the rand to be closely aligned to fundamentals, with most of the ‘bad news’ already priced in. Policy-driven liquidity ensured a smooth journey through Tuesday’s quarter-end, as evidenced by US repo markets, and underpinned the favourable turn in liquidity conditions for emerging market currencies – in stark contrast to the dollar liquidity crunch in March. At the close of local trade, the rand quoted 1.80 percent stronger at R17.05/$. The rand consolidated gains overnight, but we could see some movement when US jobs data gets released later on. South African bourse The JSE All Share (-1.06 percent) ended lower yesterday dragged by losses across the board. In local news, Steinhoff (-6.68 percent) is facing legal claims in excess of $10 billion as claimants seek payments for damages, its annual report showed. In the overall emerging market sphere, the MSCI Emerging Market Index (+0.60 percent) traded firmer.  The Brent oil price whipsawed yesterday but remained on the front foot. Positive US manufacturing data and a drawdown in US crude inventories pushed oil prices higher. At the close of local trade, benchmark Brent crude futures quoted 0.53 percent higher at $41.89pb. Crude prices traded higher during Asian trade this morning.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Like the Business Report on Facebook by clicking here or follow us on Twitter @Busrep. You can also follow the Business Report on Instagram here BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE