While the South African economy has been clearly struggling for the past few years, we have now hit yet another massive economic crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic. BUT there is one key segment of the South African economy which is booming right now - online trading is on a constant up curve. This already massive online trading economy is important and is under-estimated in formal analysis in several significant ways. The rapid expansion of fast internet access that has happened recently in South Africa, with the radical lowering of data costs into immediate reality, has played a pivotal part in the online trading industry boom. Probably most importantly, the online space is the protagonist of a new economy in which anyone can become a trader. This phenomenon is in line with global trends and it could play a significant part in alleviating South Africa’s massive unemployment problem. The appeal of this economy is its inclusivity. For example on the GV Trading platform, anyone can participate and the barriers to entry are extremely low. The GV trading platform start-up trading investment is only R50. Thus this allows for real trial over and above the $1000 demo trial that everyone receives upon registration. We have watched a generation of, what we call, “online tradetrepreneurs” rise over the past few years and build successful investments online out of next-to-nothing. The GV Trading team is convinced that this new economy will continue to outpace the formal sector because the growth potential is phenomenal. The GV trading platform is unique in that a user doesn’t need to have the knowledge and experience to trade the markets - even if the user doesn’t have the time to study them and trade. Users can even browse through GV Trading’s experienced traders, choose the one they would like to copy and watch their portfolio grow!  GV Trading provides users with the trading tools for experienced and new traders. Their goal is to welcome users in to a life-long commitment to make registered traders succeed through continuously improving their users` knowledge and skills. They have all the tools to educate users and guide them relating to investing, Trading, Forex, Stocks, Cryptocurrencies and a whole lot more. GV Trading’s platform assists in the user’s quest for success in the world of trading. Make sure you subscribe to GV Trading to receive their successful online trading tips directly to your inbox. When you use GV Trading’s unique offering, the team’s focus is on answering your questions. Contact GV Trading via e-mail at support@gvtrading.co.  Start trading now! GV Trading team - Trade Without Limits.