JOHANNESBURG - The rand remained in positive territory as risk appetite rose after the US payrolls smashed estimates, while South Africa surprised with Q1 current account data revealing the first surplus in 17 years according to NKC Research. The release of South Africa’s Q1 current account data was overshadowed by the US non-farm payrolls release (which we expected to rise by 4.2 million). Beneath the appealing veneer, the US labour market is still facing a net loss of 14.7 million job losses from the Global Coronavirus Recession. As encouraging as the net job flows have been, gross flows show a labour market that is still bleeding jobs – with initial claims for unemployment at 2.3 million last week. At the close of local trade the rand quoted 0.34 percent stronger at R16.97/$, after trading in range of R16.88/$ - R17.06/$. The rand traded flat overnight, and trade will likely be quiet today with an expected trading range of R16.80/$ - R17.10/$. South African bourse The JSE All Share (+1.54 percent) rose yesterday, in step with global stock markets, after US jobs data came out better than expected. In the overall emerging market sphere, the MSCI Emerging Market Index (+2.24 percent) traded higher. Brent crude oil The Brent oil price rose after US crude inventories dropped by 7.2million barrels last week, according to the US Energy Information Administration (EIA). A stellar US jobs report also lifted investor sentiment across the spectrum. At the close of local trade, benchmark Brent crude futures quoted 0.59 percent firmer at $42.33pb. Crude prices traded little changed during Asian trade this morning.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Like the Business Report on Facebook by clicking here or follow us on Twitter @Busrep. You can also follow the Business Report on Instagram here BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE