Johannesburg - The Department of Correctional Services has recorded 3 688 confirmed Covid-19 cases across some of its facilities with 2 235 recoveries. Police Minister Bheki Cele confirmed the figures during a justice, crime prevention and security cluster briefing on Wednesday. A breakdown of the figures shows that 2 203 officials have tested positive with 1 485 inmates. For recoveries, 1231 are of inmates and there are currently 239 active cases. A total of 15 inmates and 31 officials have died from the virus. Cele said there has been miss-information which attempts to make it seem like the number of active cases in the country’s prison is far higher than reported. He said the inmates who had tested positive account for 1% of the prison population. “There is some misinformation that also needs to be corrected. Some organizations which claim to represent inmates have unfortunately resorted to exaggerating Covid-19 cases in our centres in an effort to instigate inmates. We are taking measures to address this. With regards to such planned instigations, most inmates have ignored this agenda as they are familiar with the preventative measures in all our centres,” he said. Cele also confirmed that 6 128 inmates have been released as part of the parol pardon system announced by Ramaphosa earlier this year. The parol is only for minor offenders. At SAPS, the total number of police officers who have tested positive is recorded at 7 021 and 53 police officers have died from the virus. And over 2000 police officers have recovered. Cele said as some police stations and other government facilities have closed temporarily because of confirmed cases. He said measures were underway to provide temporary mobile police stations and Home Affairs offices. “We want to assure the public however that contingency measures such as the provision of the mobile units and the use of nearby buildings have been put in place to ensure minimal service delivery interruptions. We apologise for the inconvenience resulting from these temporary closures,” he said. * For the latest on the Covid-19 outbreak, visit IOL's special #Coronavirus page. ** If you think you have been exposed to the Covid-19 virus, please call the 24-hour hotline on 0800 029 999 or visit sacoronavirus.co.za 