London - Sitting up in bed with a big smile, Vienna Hayers is determined she will soon be dancing again. The 12-year-old has been through a life-changing experience that would leave many older patients devastated – her lower right arm had to be amputated after a freak trampoline accident. Refusing to be cowed, Vienna said she was "getting stronger every day". "I will be back to dance before you know it," she said from Great Ormond Street Hospital in London. "I’m hoping to get back to competing by working hard. My bravery and determination will get me far." Vienna was performing a flip on the trampoline in her garden when she landed heavily on the arm, breaking her elbow. Surgeons eventually had to remove the limb because blood could no longer reach her right hand. Her mother, Michelle, described the last few weeks as a "rollercoaster" but added: "She is determined this will not stop her." Vienna, who began dancing when she was two, was playing at home in the village of Sharnbrook, near Bedford, on June 10 when she fell. She was taken to Bedford Hospital before being moved to Great Ormond Street. She has had eight operations, and faces more, but surgeons were not able to correct the circulation problem. Hayers, 46, a teacher, is the only family member who has been allowed to stay with her because of coronavirus. Her father Gary, 45, who runs a YouTube channel to train electricians, has also visited and has spent time with Vienna’s brother Fin, 14, adapting the house for her return. Hayers said he was in tears as he spoke to Vienna before the amputation – and she was comforting him. He said: "You wouldn’t believe it if you’d heard what she’d said. It was an amazing speech. She will bounce back." Vienna, who must now learn to use her left hand, began dancing at Elev8 Studios, an academy in Bedford, a decade ago and is now an assistant in baby classes, a soloist and a member of their competition team. Two crowdfunding pages have raised more than £12 000 (abojut R250 000) between them for Vienna.