JOHANNESBURG - The South African currency surrendered some gains as risk appetite ebbed in the wake of poor data out of China, dwarfing optimism surrounding promising vaccine trial results accordin to NKC Research. Meanwhile, South Africa’s debt-strapped government committed to secure funds for the rescue of national carrier SAA, with an influx of at least R10 billion needed for the restructuring plan – this is in addition to the R16 billion set aside for the struggling parastatal in February. Turning to next week’s events, the plunge in inflation to a 16-year low in June has raised the odds of a rate cut next week. With the widening fiscal deficit – expected to balloon to 82.1 percent of GDP in 2020/21 FY – which will require higher government bond issuance, the steepening yield curve will again open up attractive carry & roll positions. At the close of local trade, the rand quoted 0.02 percent stronger at R16.64/$. Expected range today R16.60/$ - R16.90/$. South African bourse The JSE All Share (-0.39 percent) ended lower yesterday dragged by losses in large industrials (-1.58 percent) and technology (-2.08 percent) shares. Anglo American Platinum (-0.70 percent) said yesterday that its platinum group metal (PGM) output declined by 41 percent or 521,600 ounces in Q2 following the shutdowns implemented in South Africa and Zimbabwe due to coronavirus crisis. Brent crude oil The Brent oil price traded in a narrow band after Opec and other crude producers agreed to ease production cuts from August. At the close of local trade, benchmark Brent crude futures quoted 0.44 percent lower at $43.69pb. Crude prices traded weaker during Asian trade this morning.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Like the Business Report on Facebook by clicking here or follow us on Twitter @Busrep. You can also follow the Business Report on Instagram here BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE