For months now, a novel virus has upended ‘normal’.  As South Africans we’ve had to wrestle with uncertainty, struggle to adapt, scramble to adjust, and clamber to create new ways to thrive. We’ve had to focus on the present, navigate the urgent, and figure out the ‘how’. But now, with the second half of the year ahead, it’s time to Think Big. To look beyond the moment, solve for solutions, and plan for possibilities. Tracy Hirst, Chief Marketing Officer of PSG, says “This requires access to independent thinking and expert advice. PSG decided to gather a collection of bigger picture thinkers to help all South Africans unpack the future, consider different scenarios and manage expectations on how things could unfold.” The series is hosted by the fiercely intelligent Bruce Whitfield, whose award-winning style of journalism allows him to generate fascinating discussions, and each session is co-hosted by a member of the PSG executive team. The Think Big series provides thought-leadership to help individuals see the bigger picture in crucial areas of concern.  “Our aim is to facilitate some of the honest conversations we believe South Africans should be having. The starting point was people’s burning questions and the anxiety that they are currently experiencing.” The series kicks off with Jacques Pauw, investigative journalist and author of The President’s Keepers, who takes a closer look at the tobacco industry. What exactly is going on? To book your free, virtual seat for any (or all) of PSG’s Think Big sessions, go to: www.psg.co.za/support/webinars/think-big-with-psg We’ve secured the following speakers and will continue to add to the list. So, check in regularly for more thought-leadership from PSG to help you see the bigger picture. #ThinkBigPSG  Why the illegal tobacco industry continues to flourish in South Africa| Click to register Date: Tuesday 7 July, 09h00 - 10h00: Jacques Pauw, investigative journalist and author of “The Presidents Keepers” Ronald King, Head: Public Policy & Regulatory Affairs, PSG Konsult  The Future of Aviation in SA | Click to register Date: Tuesday 14 July 09h00 - 10h00 Guy Leitch, Editor SA flyer  Bertus Visser, Head: PSG Distribution Insure  The Future of Rugby | Click here to register Date: Tuesday 21 July 09h00 - 10h00 Nick Mallett, Ex-Springbok coach Adriaan Pask, Chief Investment Officer, PSG Wealth  The Future of South African Politics | Click to register Date: Tuesday 28 July 09h00 - 10h00 Herman Mashaba, South African entrepreneur, politician and the former Mayor of Johannesburg Dan Hugo, Chief Executive: PSG Distribution  The Future of Education in SA | Click to register Date: Tuesday 4 August 09h00 - 10h00 Adam Habib, Vice-Chancellor of the University of the Witwatersrand Anet Ahern, Chief Executive Officer, PSG Asset Management Affiliates of the PSG Konsult Group are authorised financial services providers. www.psg.co.za/www.psg.co.za