JOHANNESBURG – The highlights of the Global Start-up Ecosystem Report (GSER), published by Start-up Genome and the Global Entrepreneurship Network (GEN), included the rankings of the top 40 ecosystems in the world and the top 100 emerging start-up ecosystems; a detailed look at the global start-up landscape in 2020; insights into how Covid-19 has harmed start-ups; and an in-depth policy analysis of how to effectively support start-ups. Value creation by ecosystems remains concentrated with about 74 percent of all value produced being in the top 10 performing cities globally. Sadly, the top 40 ecosystems in the world featured no African city or country. In this regard, most start-up founders ask themselves, where do I have the best chance to build my company into a global success? So a friend and I debated whether South African-born Elon Musk would have been as globally successful if he had launched his company at home. The jury is still out… The GSER also analysed companies in the billion-dollar club – exits or private companies in technology with more than $1 billion (R17bn) in valuation. From 2013 to 2019, only four ecosystems produced unicorns or billion-dollar exits. Today, 80-plus ecosystems have done so, yet is any of them indigenous to Africa? A major beneficiary of the democratisation of tech is the Asia-Pacific region, which went from having 20 percent of the top ecosystems in 2012 to 30 percent today. The Covid-19 pandemic has even made emerging ecosystems more vulnerable. The reality is that once the virus is gone, the top start-up ecosystems will keep performing. Places such as Silicon Valley, New York, London and Beijing will continue to produce tremendous innovations and create astounding value, because they have depth of talent, experience and capital in the ecosystem – which might retract, but will remain there after the Covid-19 crisis. That is not the case in emerging ecosystems, where failures now will leave deep scars. Talent that is laid off might start working for big corporates, or move to another city. The same is true for founders who might have to close shop. Ecosystems must invest now or risk losing the progress made in the past 10 years. The GSER listed seven success factors that the top 40 ecosystems have in common and from which African ecosystems can learn. Performance   Funding   Market Reach   Connectedness   Tech Talent   So where to now? Policymakers must ensure that resources are channelled into the start-up space promptly and that these networks are supported with crucial funding and swifter access to markets. They also desperately need better infrastructural assets to create and retain value and market worth. Ultimately, we must make sure their business journeys are as bulletproof as possible. In closing, the list of companies founded during the Great Recession is impressive. It includes Facebook, LinkedIn, Palantir and Dropbox – all based in the Bay Area. Just like the resurgence of both London and New York on the heels of the 2007 to 2009 recession, when they diversified from a reliance on their traditional strengths in finances, the post-Covid-19 recovery will see new ecosystems rising. Kizito Okechukwu is co-chairperson of the Global Entrepreneurship Network Africa: 22 on Sloane is Africa’s largest start-up campus and was recently appointed board vice-president of Digital Africa. BUSINESS REPORT