JOHANNESBURG – On May 8 the Labour Court handed down what could be considered a seminal judgment on the issue of retrenchment in the context of business rescue proceedings. The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa and the South African Cabin Crew Association brought an urgent application before the Labour Court wherein the two unions sought to challenge the procedural fairness of the intended retrenchments at South African Airways (SAA). This was spurred on by the notice in terms of the Labour Relations issued by SAA's business rescue practitioners on 09 March 2020. The question before the Labour Court was whether the issuing of the section 189(3) notice in the absence of a published and adopted business rescue plan was in accordance with a fair procedure. Simply put, can the section 189 retrenchment process commence in the absence of a business rescue plan? The Labour Court found that a business rescue practitioner was not permitted to initiate the retrenchment process in the absence of a business rescue plan contemplating retrenchments. Thus, the issuing of the section 189(3) notice was procedurally unfair. The Labour Court also found that there is nothing preventing an employer from offering voluntary severance packages as a measure to avoid retrenchments, prior to the adoption of a business rescue plan. This judgment is problematic for the following reasons:   In our respectful view, the Labour Court came to the wrong conclusion. The judgement is likely to negatively impact the financial viability of an employer that may already be in financial distress, by unnecessarily delaying the operation of section 189. This could also impact the potential success of the business rescue process and where urgent retrenchments need to be advanced prior to a plan being published. On a separate, but related note, there was no need for the business rescue practitioners to withdraw the section 189(3) notices already issued by SAA in November 2019 prior to their appointment. In our view, they could have stepped into the shoes of management and continued with the process that had already commenced, as they would have been entitled to do so by virtue of their section 140 powers. It appears that the business rescue practitioners are applying for leave to appeal the judgement. Sandile July and Lisa Appelgryn are from Werksmans Attorneys. BUSINESS REPORT