The Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) is blending the physical and digital realms of our world, whilst rapidly changing the ways we live and work. There are many predictions about the future of work, some of them, scary; and others that point to possibilities where many more people might find their purpose and fulfilment in the pursuit of their livelihoods. The radical transformations of jobs and workplaces; companies and entire industries across the world is bringing the human resources function to the forefront of current efforts to prepare people and workforces for the future. HR professionals are finding themselves in leadership positions playing driving roles in the adoptions of new technologies, the innovations of services and products, the creation of new modes of work and the development and management of new kinds of organisational talent. In turn, this is having a profound, and very necessary impact on how we are educating and training the emerging HR practitioners. According to Ashley Motene, Industrial Psychologist and Management & Leadership Programme Developer at SACAP (the South African College of Applied Psychology), SA educational institutions face the challenge of not just striving to fill the current skills shortages highlighted by the National Skills Development Plan 2030 and the SABPP People Factor Strategy, but to also address the further competence needs highlighted by 4IR in the global context. Ashley highlights 5 transformations in HR education that have underpinned SACAP’s educational programmes in HR management:   Ashley concludes, “In the 4IR context, disruptive action and thinking needs to happen continuously within organisations in order for the promises made to stakeholders to be responsibly kept and ethically fulfilled. In the future, HR professionals will be needed to help organisations of people and bots to adapt with agility and perform with accountability; to learn with open-mindedness; to protect wellbeing intentionally and grow meaningfully. This kind of business and people-centred partnering will need to happen more flexibly, quicker but still humanely every time new ways of working are necessitated in order for organisations to thrive.”   To equip students for the 4IR world, SACAP offers two HR management educational programmes that feature dual majors in Psychology and HR management. This eclectic mix offers an exciting opportunity for students to gain foundational knowledge of the basic psychosocial factors that inevitably influence HR management. Moreover, the programmes are geared at developing student’s self-understanding and professional competence as they grow as future 4IR leaders. The Covid-19 world is new, but you can still start your studies at SACAP in June on its existing robust online platform and shift to your campus later. The class size stays small, we help lighten your data load, and you’ll be led through the programme activities by your educator. You also get face-to-face support from the student services teams. For anyone who is interested in the field of Psychology, Counselling, Human Resource Management or Business Management, SACAP offers a wide range of qualifications, including Higher Certificate, Diploma, BAppSocSci (Majoring in Psychology and Counselling), BAppSocSci (Majoring in Psychology and Human Resource Management), BappSocSci (Majoring in Psychology and Business Management) and the BPsych professional programme.