Each year, graduation is celebrated with splendour and this year, but due to lockdown UKZN will be celebrating the achievements of its students a little bit different this year - with a virtual graduation ceremony. This is a first for UKZN graduands, and now the whole of South Africa can watch it on IOL and national TV. The university’s annual and traditional graduation ceremonies are at the heart of the academic calendar, and this year is no different. UKZN is leaving no stone unturned to ensure graduands enjoy their proudest moment – a joyous and grand occasion shared with peers, family and friends. Each year, graduation is celebrated with splendour. Halls are decked and brimming with people, and warmed by the ululations from proud parents as their children walk up on stage in their regalia for their degrees to be conferred on them. But Covid-19 changed all that. The lockdown does not allow such gatherings. Still, the show must go on and UKZN will be celebrating the achievements of its students in an unconventional way – a virtual graduation ceremony. The virtual ceremony, like any graduation, will confer degrees on graduands who have succeeded in fulfilling their academic requirements – including those who will receive their qualifications posthumously. It will include an address by UKZN’s Vice-Chancellor and Principal Professor Nana Poku, who will be acting as Chancellor, as well as congratulatory messages by four Deputy Vice-Chancellors. Parents, friends and peers, together with the whole of South Africa, will all have  front-row seats from the comforts of their homes as the virtual graduation ceremony will be available on IOL and be live streamed on SABC 3 (DSTV Channel 193) and Ukhozi FM. Graduands will join the event via the university’s link: virtualgraduation.ukzn.ac.za. “Technology advancement has made our lives easier in all sectors of society, be it in education, business or personal life. We have to take advantage of it and make use of it to our benefit. It is no longer a luxury but a necessity, as we need it in our daily lives. As UKZN, we recently hosted a number of successful public engagement events virtually. These events made headlines in the media as they touched and impacted on the lives of many people. We want to assure our stakeholders, especially parents and students that we will keep on improving the way we present and deliver graduation ceremonies to make them more exciting,” says Normah Zondo, acting executive director of corporate relations. The university is conferring 9 963 degree certificates, 6 505 of which will be awarded to undergraduate recipients and 3 458 to postgraduates. There are 414 Masters degrees (thesis) and 228 doctoral graduands. Moreover, there are 104  summa cum laude and 270 cum laude graduands. As has been the trend in previous years, female graduands continue to excel, with women making up 70 percent of the summa cum laude graduands and 67 percent of the cum laude graduands. The university is especially proud of the achievements of 80 graduands with disabilities, 31 of whom have completed postgraduate studies. Two exceptional achievers will graduate with PhDs and six with Masters. There are 276 international graduands, 217 of whom will receive postgraduate certificates. Overall, 1 609 degrees will be conferred in the College of Agriculture, Engineering and Science, 5 087 in the College of Humanities, 2 254 in the College of Law and Management Studies and 1 013 in the College of Health Sciences. “To our graduands, rest assured you are going to graduate virtually with a degree or any qualification and become a bonafide graduate of UKZN today. You are now armed with the best education in the world. Go out there and inspire greatness in all that you,” adds Zondo.   Follow UKZN on these social media #tags: #UKZNgrad2020 and #ItCanBe Congratulations to the class of 2020. 